README.md, before:

#  NLeSc Analytics Special Interest Group (SIG)

## Bring your own analytical challenges

Do you encounter statistics/mathematics problems in your projects? You can bring your issue to the SIG -- we can look at the issue together and do our best to find an applied analytical solution.

### What do you need?

 - Open an issue on GitHub and label it `Help | Title`.
 - Describe the type of issue you want to address. Make sure to include:
    - What is the final goal?
    - What is the challenge?
    - A sample of your code (if possible).

We will discuss your issue during the next SIG meeting.

## Share your statistics/mathematics solutions

Did you do something really cool? Share your experiences with the SIG! Contact the SIG to arrange a presentation in one of the upcoming sessions.

## SIG contact
analytics@esciencecenter.nl

## Previous sessions

|       Date |                              Topic                               | Presenter |
|-----------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------:|:----------|
| 2018-04-12 |                       Importance weighting                       | Wouter    |
| 2018-05-07 |                     Network formation models                     | Laurens   |
| 2018-05-31 |                   Network community detection                    | Dafne     |
| 2018-06-21 |                    Topological data analysis                     | Johan     |
| 2018-08-02 |              Applied multilevel regression analysis              | Vincent   |
| 2018-11-05 |                         Causal inference                         | Mees      |
| 2019-01-21 |                       Surrogate modelling                        | Laurens   |
| 2019-07-18 |                              Copula                              | Sarah     |
| 2020-02-17 |                    Uncertainty quantification                    | Anna      |
| 2020-05-11 |                         Complex systems                          | Johan     |
| 2020-05-25 |                       Confidence intervals                       | Hanno     |
| 2020-06-08 |                       Community detection                        | Dafne     |
| 2020-06-22 |                 Change detection in time series                  | Wanda     |
| 2020-07-06 |   Chapter0-Introduction in "A First Course in Network Science"   | course    |
| 2020-07-20 | Chapter1-Network elements in "A First Course in Network Science" | course    |
| 2020-08-31 | Chapter1-Network elements in "A First Course in Network Science" | course    |
| 2020-09-14 | Chapter1-Network elements in "A First Course in Network Science" | course    |
| 2020-09-28 |   Chapter2-Small Worlds in "A First Course in Network Science"   | course    |
| 2020-10-12 |         Complex numbers for research software engineers          | Pablo R.  |
| 2020-10-26 |   Chapter2-Small Worlds in "A First Course in Network Science"   | course    |
| 2020-11-09 | Voronoi diagrams and their many and varied uses, an introduction | Johan     |
| 2020-11-23 |   Chapter2-Small Worlds in "A First Course in Network Science"   | Sarah     |
| 2020-12-07 |            Extreme value theory in weather & climate             | Gijs      |

## Engineers with technical experience

|                           Technique | Engineer(s) |
|------------------------------------:|:------------|
| Structural Equation Modelling (SEM) | Laurens     |
|       Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC) | Patrick     |
|    Applied dynamical systems theory | Pablo R.    |
|                     Computer vision | Pablo R.    |
|                      Geo-statistics | Sarah       |

## Engineers with software experience

| Software | Engineer(s)                |
|---------:|:---------------------------|
|        R | Laurens, Vincent, Pablo R. |
|     SPSS | Laurens                    |
|     AMOS | Laurens                    |
|   Matlab | Pablo R.                   |

## Potential topics

|                                                                                                                   Topic | Suggested by |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:-------------|
| [Trade-off between stability and accuracy in deep learning](https://www.sintef.no/projectweb/geilowinterschool/2021/#/) | Sarah        |
|                                               [Kinematics with a smartphone](https://pabrod.github.io/elevator-en.html) | Pablo R.     |
|                                                                         Something about partial differential equations? | Pablo R.     |

## Interesting events

|  Location |    Organisation    | Event                                                                                                            |
|----------:|:------------------:|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|   Utrecht | Utrecht University | [Data Science SIG](https://www.uu.nl/en/research/utrecht-applied-data-science)                                   |
|   Utrecht | Utrecht University | [R Cafe](https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/R-data-cafe)                                                       |
|   Utrecht | Utrecht University | [Complexity lab](https://www.uu.nl/en/research/complex-systems-studies/research/complexity-laboratorium-utrecht) |
| Amsterdam |       MeetUp       | [Data Science Amsterdam](https://www.meetup.com/Data-Science-Amsterdam/)                                         |
| Amsterdam |       MeetUp       | [Amste-R-dam](https://www.meetup.com/amst-R-dam/)                                                                |

## Interesting training courses

| Location |              Date               | Course                                                                                                                                                                       |
|---------:|:-------------------------------:|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|  Utrecht |   10 July 2019 - 12 July 2019   | [Introduction to Multilevel Analysis ](https://utrechtsummerschool.nl/courses/social-sciences/introduction-to-multilevel-analysis)                                           |
|  Utrecht |   15 July 2019 - 17 July 2019   | [Advanced Multilevel Analysis](https://utrechtsummerschool.nl/courses/social-sciences/advanced-multilevel-analysis)                                                          |
|  Utrecht | 19 August 2019 - 23 August 2019 | [Modeling the dynamics of intensive longitudinal data](https://utrechtsummerschool.nl/courses/social-sciences/modeling-the-dynamics-of-intensive-longitudinal-data)          |
|  Utrecht |  15 April 2019 - 18 April 2019  | [Applied Bayesian Statistics](https://utrechtsummerschool.nl/courses/social-sciences/applied-bayesian-statistics)                                                            |
|  Utrecht |   08 July 2019 - 12 July 2019   | [Introduction to Structural Equation Modeling using Mplus](https://utrechtsummerschool.nl/courses/social-sciences/introduction-to-structural-equation-modelling-using-mplus) |
|  Utrecht |   15 July 2019 - 19 July 2019   | [Advanced course on using Mplus](https://utrechtsummerschool.nl/courses/social-sciences/advanced-course-on-using-mplus)                                                      |

## Interesting open-source software

| Software | Topic and source                                                                                                      |
|---------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|    FORCE | [Mass-processing of selected medium-resolution satellite image archives](https://www.uni-trier.de/index.php?id=63673) |

Commit message:

Add a few lectures as potential topics

README.md, after:

#  NLeSc Analytics Special Interest Group (SIG)

## Bring your own analytical challenges

Do you encounter statistics/mathematics problems in your projects? You can bring your issue to the SIG -- we can look at the issue together and do our best to find an applied analytical solution.

### What do you need?

 - Open an issue on GitHub and label it `Help | Title`.
 - Describe the type of issue you want to address. Make sure to include:
    - What is the final goal?
    - What is the challenge?
    - A sample of your code (if possible).

We will discuss your issue during the next SIG meeting.

## Share your statistics/mathematics solutions

Did you do something really cool? Share your experiences with the SIG! Contact the SIG to arrange a presentation in one of the upcoming sessions.

## SIG contact
analytics@esciencecenter.nl

## Previous sessions

|       Date |                              Topic                               | Presenter |
|-----------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------:|:----------|
| 2018-04-12 |                       Importance weighting                       | Wouter    |
| 2018-05-07 |                     Network formation models                     | Laurens   |
| 2018-05-31 |                   Network community detection                    | Dafne     |
| 2018-06-21 |                    Topological data analysis                     | Johan     |
| 2018-08-02 |              Applied multilevel regression analysis              | Vincent   |
| 2018-11-05 |                         Causal inference                         | Mees      |
| 2019-01-21 |                       Surrogate modelling                        | Laurens   |
| 2019-07-18 |                              Copula                              | Sarah     |
| 2020-02-17 |                    Uncertainty quantification                    | Anna      |
| 2020-05-11 |                         Complex systems                          | Johan     |
| 2020-05-25 |                       Confidence intervals                       | Hanno     |
| 2020-06-08 |                       Community detection                        | Dafne     |
| 2020-06-22 |                 Change detection in time series                  | Wanda     |
| 2020-07-06 |   Chapter0-Introduction in "A First Course in Network Science"   | course    |
| 2020-07-20 | Chapter1-Network elements in "A First Course in Network Science" | course    |
| 2020-08-31 | Chapter1-Network elements in "A First Course in Network Science" | course    |
| 2020-09-14 | Chapter1-Network elements in "A First Course in Network Science" | course    |
| 2020-09-28 |   Chapter2-Small Worlds in "A First Course in Network Science"   | course    |
| 2020-10-12 |         Complex numbers for research software engineers          | Pablo R.  |
| 2020-10-26 |   Chapter2-Small Worlds in "A First Course in Network Science"   | course    |
| 2020-11-09 | Voronoi diagrams and their many and varied uses, an introduction | Johan     |
| 2020-11-23 |   Chapter2-Small Worlds in "A First Course in Network Science"   | Sarah     |
| 2020-12-07 |            Extreme value theory in weather & climate             | Gijs      |

## Engineers with technical experience

|                           Technique | Engineer(s) |
|------------------------------------:|:------------|
| Structural Equation Modelling (SEM) | Laurens     |
|       Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC) | Patrick     |
|    Applied dynamical systems theory | Pablo R.    |
|                     Computer vision | Pablo R.    |
|                      Geo-statistics | Sarah       |

## Engineers with software experience

| Software | Engineer(s)                |
|---------:|:---------------------------|
|        R | Laurens, Vincent, Pablo R. |
|     SPSS | Laurens                    |
|     AMOS | Laurens                    |
|   Matlab | Pablo R.                   |

## Potential topics

|                                                                                                                   Topic | Suggested by |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:-------------|
| [Trade-off between stability and accuracy in deep learning](https://www.sintef.no/projectweb/geilowinterschool/2021/#/) | Sarah        |
|                                               [Kinematics with a smartphone](https://pabrod.github.io/elevator-en.html) | Pablo R.     |
|                                                                         Something about partial differential equations? | Pablo R.     |
|                                                   Watch lecture on [Network epidemiology](https://youtu.be/vwVDJVbw10k) | Dafne        |
|                            Watch lectures on [Random walks](https://www.complexityexplorer.org/courses/46-random-walks) | Dafne        |
| Course on [Agent based models](https://www.complexityexplorer.org/courses/101-introduction-to-agent-based-modeling-spring-2020) | Dafne        |



## Interesting events

|  Location |    Organisation    | Event                                                                                                            |
|----------:|:------------------:|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|   Utrecht | Utrecht University | [Data Science SIG](https://www.uu.nl/en/research/utrecht-applied-data-science)                                   |
|   Utrecht | Utrecht University | [R Cafe](https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/R-data-cafe)                                                       |
|   Utrecht | Utrecht University | [Complexity lab](https://www.uu.nl/en/research/complex-systems-studies/research/complexity-laboratorium-utrecht) |
| Amsterdam |       MeetUp       | [Data Science Amsterdam](https://www.meetup.com/Data-Science-Amsterdam/)                                         |
| Amsterdam |       MeetUp       | [Amste-R-dam](https://www.meetup.com/amst-R-dam/)                                                                |

## Interesting training courses

| Location |              Date               | Course                                                                                                                                                                       |
|---------:|:-------------------------------:|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|  Utrecht |   10 July 2019 - 12 July 2019   | [Introduction to Multilevel Analysis ](https://utrechtsummerschool.nl/courses/social-sciences/introduction-to-multilevel-analysis)                                           |
|  Utrecht |   15 July 2019 - 17 July 2019   | [Advanced Multilevel Analysis](https://utrechtsummerschool.nl/courses/social-sciences/advanced-multilevel-analysis)                                                          |
|  Utrecht | 19 August 2019 - 23 August 2019 | [Modeling the dynamics of intensive longitudinal data](https://utrechtsummerschool.nl/courses/social-sciences/modeling-the-dynamics-of-intensive-longitudinal-data)          |
|  Utrecht |  15 April 2019 - 18 April 2019  | [Applied Bayesian Statistics](https://utrechtsummerschool.nl/courses/social-sciences/applied-bayesian-statistics)                                                            |
|  Utrecht |   08 July 2019 - 12 July 2019   | [Introduction to Structural Equation Modeling using Mplus](https://utrechtsummerschool.nl/courses/social-sciences/introduction-to-structural-equation-modelling-using-mplus) |
|  Utrecht |   15 July 2019 - 19 July 2019   | [Advanced course on using Mplus](https://utrechtsummerschool.nl/courses/social-sciences/advanced-course-on-using-mplus)                                                      |

## Interesting open-source software

| Software | Topic and source                                                                                                      |
|---------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|    FORCE | [Mass-processing of selected medium-resolution satellite image archives](https://www.uni-trier.de/index.php?id=63673) |
