Meetings/20210325/storyline.md, before:

# SIG Lightning Talks

## Must have

- What is the format of the SIG? (Following courses, doing tutorials, goals and outputs)
- What topics are discussed in the SIG? (General scope of the SIG, not necessarily an exhaustive list)
- When should people approach the SIG? (Engineers who are not in the SIG should contact you if they have questions about...)

## Tentative structure

1. Intro _(1.5 min)_
    - Mathematics is everywhere. Yes, also in your project
    - The two meanings of the word computational
    - Statistics, analysis, algebra, geometry, even numerics
    - Are mathematics involved? Maybe we don't know a word about it, but certainly we are interested
2. What is our format? _(0.5 min)_
    - Two meetings per month. Each with a different purpose:
        - Firmly building a skill
        - Learning a bit about interesting topics
3. Firmly building a skill _(0.5 min)_
    - Currently we are learning Network Theory
    - We are following a book
    - Every month, a member of the SIG presents a section of the book
4. Interesting topics _(1.5 min)_
    - Such as
        - Uncertainty quantification
        - Community detection
        - Change detection in time series
        - Voronoi diagrams
        - Complex numbers
        - ...
5. Outro _(0.5 min)_
    - We are Dafne, Johan, Sarah and Pablo R.
    - Want to join? Contact us!
    - Do you think we may be of help? Contact us!

## Notes

I think it could be a good idea to make the content of each individual talk more public, specially in such a broad SIG as this one.
I mean, perhaps someone is not very interested in mathematics in general, but she or he is extremely motivated about QR decomposition, and wants to join us for a single day.

Commit message:

Outline 1.0 of Lightning talk
Plus link to the slides

Meetings/20210325/storyline.md, after:

# SIG Lightning Talks

## Link to the slides

[For NLeSC members only](https://nlesc.sharepoint.com/:p:/s/statistics/EZZ09GgcLlFEvWqMF6meSDgBSjWkaTriFZcoqV-4hXKdFQ?e=yIZ8Fw).

## Outline

1. Intro _(1.25 min)_
    - The two meanings of the word computational
    - Mathematics is everywhere. Yes, also in your project
2. What is our format? _(0.5 min)_
    - Two meetings per month. Each with a different purpose:
        - Firmly building a skill
        - Learning a bit about interesting topics
3. Firmly building a skill _(0.5 min)_
    - Currently we are learning Network Theory
    - We are following a book
    - Every month, a member of the SIG presents a section of the book
4. Interesting topics _(1.5 min)_
    - Such as
        - Voronoi diagrams
            - Example application: airport networks
        - Complex numbers
            - Example application: aerodynamics
        - Random walks
            - Example application: stochastic systems theory
5. Outro _(0.75 min)_
    - If your project uses analysis, statistics, algebra or geometry, you may want to talk to us!
        - If not, also let us know. It is really hard to find a project that doesn't!
    - We are Dafne, Johan, Sarah and Pablo R.
    - Want to join? Contact us!
    - Do you think, or even suspect, we may be of help? Contact us!
